---
layout: post
title:  "Week 0: A schema salad week"
categories: GSoC '17
published: true
---

I started out coding my deliverables a week early because I had, by then, read a lot of resources on how to port codebases to Python 3.x and felt the need to translate all that reading into work. 

I opened [a PR](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/schema_salad/pull/109/) on the main repo so that my commits are visible to my mentors as I do my work. I also opened [an issue](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/schema_salad/issues/108) to keep an updated checklist of what has been completed so far. I will cover the steps to porting in more detail after ``cwltool`` work is done. For now, I will just go through whatever I achieved during this week. 

I can say I'm happy with my progress by the end of this week. I was able to get all passing ``unit`` tests locally and on Travis CI for ``Python 2.7 and 3.x (x = 3,4,5,6).`` These are the Python runtimes which we intend to support. 
[Current code coverage](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/schema_salad/issues/10#issuecomment-304799586) for ``schema_salad`` is at ``84%``, thus there are chances of some regressions being introduced due to the changes made so far and I hope to counter them as and when they show up in further testing.

To check integration with ``cwltool``, I ran ``cwltool unit`` tests and ``conformance`` tests with my ported version of ``schema_salad`` and they passed succesfully. Though I cannot measure how this improves code coverage of schema_salad (can I?), but this is a very strong sign that the port doesn't break existing compatibility with Python 2.7.

I feel most of the work in porting ``schema_salad`` codebase to Python 3 is done now. This includes rewriting ``tox.ini`` file and turning on all supported versions of Python on Travis CI. I am following this workflow sugessted by Petr to port both ``cwltool`` and ``schema_salad``.

_The goal is minimize the number of merges and schema-salad releases, in the event there are issues in schema salad that turn up while porting cwltool._

1. in this branch setup.py, change version="3.0"
2. in cwltool, create a new python3 branch and change the dependency to schema-salad >= 3.0
3. for development, create a virtualenv and clone/install python3 branches for both schema-salad and cwltool
4. fix up cwltool for python3 support & pass conformance tests using both python 2.7 and 3.4
5. merge & release schema-salad 3.0
6. this should make it possible for the cwltool PR tests to pass
7. once those are green, merge & release cwltool

Thus, before I can get this PR merged, I need to port ``cwltool`` as well. 

Plans for next Week 1 (29th May - 2nd June):
- Start porting cwltool to Python 3 (follow the same checklist as I did for ``schema_salad``)
- ~~concretely measure schema salad test coverage~~ [Link](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/schema_salad/issues/10#issuecomment-304799329)
- work on upgrading ``mypy`` package for schema salad
- resolve any other bugs in ``schema_salad`` port
