---
layout: post
title:  "Week 3: A mypy/unicode week"
categories: GSoC '17
published: true
---

Couple of things I'd like to mention this week.

Since I was stuck at unit testing in ``cwltool`` last week, I decided to upgrade the ``mypy`` package to ``0.511`` for ``cwltool``, fix new errors which emerge from doing the upgrade, update ``typesheds`` in this process and add new ``typesheds`` which are ``py3`` compatible.  

When I ran ``mypy`` without ``--py2`` flag on the codebase, there were alot of errors which were related to confusion between binary data and textual data being processed in the codebase (since one can use ``str`` annotation for both kind of data in ``py2`` but not in ``py3``). Due to the lack of docstrings, I've to manually go through the code and figure out if it's binary or textual data and make changes in the annotations or actual code to fix these errors/potential bugs. Before doing that, I decided to use ``unicode`` strings consistantly in the codebase for ``Python 2`` by importing ``from __future__ import unicode literals`` in each module in the codebase. 

Projects like ``Django`` have used this approch in the past to port their codebase. Petr has also [expressed interest](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/schema_salad/pull/109#issuecomment-303198370) in consistently using unicode strings in the codebase and there have been guides on the internet like [this one](http://python-future.org/unicode_literals.html) speaking for and against this approach. The idea is to create better distinction between binary data and unicode strings, hopefully making the process of porting to ``Python 3`` potentially easier for me. If all the textual data will stand out - I can, in more explicit and better manner, deal with file IO and ``encoding/decoding`` of data.

I've created a new branch, and have pushed my latest commits at: [manu-chroma/unicode_literal_usage](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/compare/master...manu-chroma:unicode_literal_usage). This is rebased on top of my previous work in ``mypy_updates`` and ``modernize`` branch.

Changes made so far does not break backward compatibility. Thus, ``unit`` tests and ``conformance`` tests still pass in ``py27`` runtime which latest changes, so using unicode everywhere seems like a welcoming change. :neckbeard:

__*P.S.*__ I was also interested in measuring combined code coverage of the codebase for ``unit`` tests and ``conformace`` tests. With some hacking of ``cwltest`` package and ``conformace test`` bash script, I was able to do that. Coverage is [low at the moment](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/issues/334#issuecomment-309292744) but we're working on improving it. Also, this made me realise how handy ``mypy`` tool is in this process.   

__*P.P.S.*__ I found a bug in ``mypy`` stub files for ``python2`` while debugging errors in ``cwltool``. In shorts, it is related to passing ``unicode`` strings to ``stdlib`` functions works correctly at runtime, but ``mypy`` shows unsupported type. For more details: [typeshed/issues/1411](https://github.com/python/typeshed/issues/1411) I intend to make a PR for this before next ``mypy`` release.

__ToDo next week?__ Make all cwltool unit test pass in ``Python 3`` runtime. :bowtie: 
