---
layout: post
title:  "Week 11: The penultimate week"
categories: GSoC '17
published: true
---

I've been continuing my efforts to reduce the existing issue backlog. I will briefly dicuss the PR's I made this week and related issues:

-  #### PR [#520](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/pull/520): Deprecate draft-2 and draft-3


We're on our way to deprecate support for running cwlVersion: _draft-2, draft-3, draft-4_ workflows on CWL Tool. Changes required for this includes some minor re-factoring and graceful deprecation of old module names. Also, removing all the methods related to coverting drafts from previous version to knew. We will continue to actively support ``v1.0`` and higher and related dev versions.

- #### PR [#512](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/pull/512): Fix print-rdf flag

I found out that ``--print-rdf`` was broken on Python 3 while working on a separate issue. Did a small fix and added test to make sure it doesn't break without notice in the future.

- #### Readme: Improving instructions for testing and install from source

Did a bunch of improvements to the README, Related PR: [#523](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/pull/523), [#519](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/pull/519)

- #### Using Apache Avro package in Python 3:

I created a [reference issue](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/issues/524) highlighting the current workaround to make Apache Avro package work in Python 3 with schema salad and CWL Tool. This would be helpful, should we try to use a different workaround in the future.

- #### Measuring code coverage of CWL Tool:

I spent some amount of time last weekend on this issue. The complexity of the problem lies in automating the process of measuring code coverage of ``conformance tests``. And how to pass ``coverage run cwltool`` as the RUNNER parameter to the bash script which invokes the entire suite of conformance tests. Michael had some ideas how to do that and I tried to get them working. You can read the related discussion here: [cwltool/issues/334](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/cwltool/issues/334)

I was finally been able to get measure coverage but I was using hard-coded paths and little hacks which need to be taken care of before I make a mergable PR.

ToDo for this Week:

- Setup ``codov`` on PR's for CWL Tool
- Wind up any remaining PR's and issues
