---
layout: post
title:  "Some ideas for 2019"
categories: ramble exploration
published: true
---
This is **not a 2019 resolution list** but some ideas I have for self-advancement (and some improvements too), moving ahead.
Ironically enough, the notion of resolutions around new year it what made me sit down and pen down these thoughts (which I've had for a while) on what are some of the 
things I want to try out/change.

I have been consuming way too much content primarily in the form of infotainment media (e.g.: Netflix), social media (reduced my facebook consumption
Only to increase my twitter consumption), lots of hacker news and in general just a lot reading a lot of technical and non-tech content stuff (concerning humanity and sometimes nobody really) on the internet.  

The problem with most of my consumption is that I have become really passive in this act. I sometimes just read way too much stuff and do not put a lot of thought into why and what of it. And how can I question or counter-argue what I've just read. This, I feel, has lead to lot of unfruitful reading and some of which I do not even retain properly as time progresses.  
This has also made me even feel like an echo-chamber at times, when I produce the same thoughts in  discussions I have with other people, later on. 

- So one of the things is really cutting down on so much quantity. Read less, and absorb more. 


I have decided to spend time to intentionally start creating stuff than I do (just writing code). This will help me in exercising my own creativity more (for lack of a better description).  

- **Draw stuff:** I have been looking forward to start drawing and do bit of sketching. I was trying a few drawing apps on android (to doodle during commute) but it is very
Unreasonable (for someone like me) to be able to draw on that (small screen, with finger?!). I will just pick a notebook and keep it accessible to myself and try to draw stuff on that.

- **Write more:** This is my first blog post that I have published since my wind up blog post about GSoC '17. That is almost a year and a half of no writing. 
In fact, I did write a few drafts after that and none of them really fleshed out into a blog post. So I want to write more in the coming time, even if it is bad or not ready. Eli's blog [[1]](https://eli.thegreenplace.net/) is really inspirational for me, in regard to writing. 
Also, putting something on the blog serves like a good motivation to keep writing new stuff, even if the audience is non-existent. It is the idea of putting something in the public domain. 

- **Hobby coding projects:** I want to pick up more hobby projects to do in my leisure time. Finally started one, just a few days back. I was longing to write an emulator
to improve me level of understanding of computer organization and architecture (utterly ruined in college) and find a reason to pick up golang. I have finally got down to working on it. It will also be nice to contribute some cool features to some of 
the OSS projects which have been good to me. 

- **Read more:** Read atleast two books a month. I think it is very achievable if I fit myself in the loop of start reading for half an hour everyday or so.

- **Health:** Just eat healthy and plenty. Also, exercise regularly. (Really hope I really do something about this)

Glad to have this thing written these thoughts down. Until next time! 